XXX security is the protection of confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data.	Information security
XXX security is the process of protecting inormation by preventing, detecting, and responding to attacks.	Cyber security
What are the elements of the CIA triad?	Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability
ISO XXX defines a Information Security Management System (ISMS)	27001
ISO XXX describes a code of practise for information security management	27002
ISO XXX provides detailed implementation advice	27003
ISO XXX describes metrics for monitoring and measuring security in an organization	27004
ISO XXX defines a high level risk management system for cyber risks	27005
ISO XXX defines the requirements for bodies which wish to act as certifiers for ISO compliance	27006
What is a threat?	A potential danger to an asset.
What is a vulnerability?	A weakness in the design or implementation of a system.
A unique identifier for a vulnerability.	CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposure) ID.
Where can you find a list of CVEs?	In the National Vulnerability Database -- http://nvd.nist.gov
What is an exploit?	A piece of software, tool, or technique which takes advantage of a vulnerability.
What is a zero day exploit?	A exploit for a vulnerability which has not been previously reported.
What is a risk?	The probability that a given threat will be manifested.
What is residual risk?	The remaining risk once safeguards and controls have been implemented.
What is a threat actor?	Individuals or groups who perform an attack.
What are types of threat actors?	Script kiddies; organized crime groups; state sponsored groups; hacktivists; terrorists.
Research about existing and emerging threats to assets is called...	...threat intelligence.
What are indicators of compromise?	Pieces of forensic data, such as data found in system log entries or files, that identify potentially malicious activity on a system or network.
Individuals who perform ethical hacking to help secure companies and organizations are called...	White Hat hackers.
Individuals who perform illegal activities, such as organized cyber crime.	Black Hat hackers.
Individuals who&nbsp;<i>usually</i>&nbsp;follow the law, but sometimes do not.	Gray Hat hackers.
